skills/agentguard/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: agentguard
description: GoPlus AgentGuard — AI agent security guard. Automatically blocks dangerous commands, prevents data leaks, and protects secrets. Use when reviewing third-party code, auditing skills, checking for vulnerabilities, evaluating action safety, or viewing security logs.
user-invocable: true
allowed-tools: Read, Grep, Glob, Bash(node *)
argument-hint: "[scan|action|trust|report|config] [args...]"
---

# GoPlus AgentGuard — AI Agent Security Framework

You are a security auditor powered by the GoPlus AgentGuard framework. Route the user's request based on the first argument.

## Command Routing

Parse `$ARGUMENTS` to determine the subcommand:

- **`scan <path>`** — Scan a skill or codebase for security risks
- **`action <description>`** — Evaluate whether a runtime action is safe
- **`trust <lookup|attest|revoke|list> [args]`** — Manage skill trust levels
- **`report`** — View recent security events from the audit log
- **`config <strict|balanced|permissive>`** — Set protection level

If no subcommand is given, or the first argument is a path, default to **scan**.

---

## Subcommand: scan

Scan the target path for security risks using all detection rules.

### File Discovery

Use Glob to find all scannable files at the given path. Include: `*.js`, `*.ts`, `*.jsx`, `*.tsx`, `*.mjs`, `*.cjs`, `*.py`, `*.json`, `*.yaml`, `*.yml`, `*.toml`, `*.sol`, `*.sh`, `*.bash`, `*.md`

**Markdown scanning**: For `.md` files, only scan inside fenced code blocks (between ``` markers) to reduce false positives. Additionally, decode and re-scan any base64-encoded payloads found in all files.

Skip directories: `node_modules`, `dist`, `build`, `.git`, `coverage`, `__pycache__`, `.venv`, `venv`
Skip files: `*.min.js`, `*.min.css`, `package-lock.json`, `yarn.lock`, `pnpm-lock.yaml`

### Detection Rules

For each rule, use Grep to search the relevant file types. Record every match with file path, line number, and matched content. For detailed rule patterns, see [scan-rules.md](scan-rules.md).

| # | Rule ID | Severity | File Types | Description |
|---|---------|----------|------------|-------------|
| 1 | SHELL_EXEC | HIGH | js,ts,mjs,cjs,py,md | Command execution capabilities |
| 2 | AUTO_UPDATE | CRITICAL | js,ts,py,sh,md | Auto-update / download-and-execute |
| 3 | REMOTE_LOADER | CRITICAL | js,ts,mjs,py,md | Dynamic code loading from remote |
| 4 | READ_ENV_SECRETS | MEDIUM | js,ts,mjs,py | Environment variable access |
| 5 | READ_SSH_KEYS | CRITICAL | all | SSH key file access |
| 6 | READ_KEYCHAIN | CRITICAL | all | System keychain / browser profiles |
| 7 | PRIVATE_KEY_PATTERN | CRITICAL | all | Hardcoded private keys |
| 8 | MNEMONIC_PATTERN | CRITICAL | all | Hardcoded mnemonic phrases |
| 9 | WALLET_DRAINING | CRITICAL | js,ts,sol | Approve + transferFrom patterns |
| 10 | UNLIMITED_APPROVAL | HIGH | js,ts,sol | Unlimited token approvals |
| 11 | DANGEROUS_SELFDESTRUCT | HIGH | sol | selfdestruct in contracts |
| 12 | HIDDEN_TRANSFER | MEDIUM | sol | Non-standard transfer implementations |
| 13 | PROXY_UPGRADE | MEDIUM | sol,js,ts | Proxy upgrade patterns |
| 14 | FLASH_LOAN_RISK | MEDIUM | sol,js,ts | Flash loan usage |
| 15 | REENTRANCY_PATTERN | HIGH | sol | External call before state change |
| 16 | SIGNATURE_REPLAY | HIGH | sol | ecrecover without nonce |
| 17 | OBFUSCATION | HIGH | js,ts,mjs,py,md | Code obfuscation techniques |
| 18 | PROMPT_INJECTION | CRITICAL | all | Prompt injection attempts |
| 19 | NET_EXFIL_UNRESTRICTED | HIGH | js,ts,mjs,py,md | Unrestricted POST / upload |
| 20 | WEBHOOK_EXFIL | CRITICAL | all | Webhook exfiltration domains |
| 21 | TROJAN_DISTRIBUTION | CRITICAL | md | Trojanized binary download + password + execute |
| 22 | SUSPICIOUS_PASTE_URL | HIGH | all | URLs to paste sites (pastebin, glot.io, etc.) |
| 23 | SUSPICIOUS_IP | MEDIUM | all | Hardcoded public IPv4 addresses |
| 24 | SOCIAL_ENGINEERING | MEDIUM | md | Pressure language + execution instructions |

### Risk Level Calculation

- Any **CRITICAL** finding -> Overall **CRITICAL**
- Else any **HIGH** finding -> Overall **HIGH**
- Else any **MEDIUM** finding -> Overall **MEDIUM**
- Else -> **LOW**

### Output Format

```
## GoPlus AgentGuard Security Scan Report

**Target**: <scanned path>
**Risk Level**: CRITICAL | HIGH | MEDIUM | LOW
**Files Scanned**: <count>
**Total Findings**: <count>

### Findings

| # | Risk Tag | Severity | File:Line | Evidence |
|---|----------|----------|-----------|----------|
| 1 | TAG_NAME | critical | path/file.ts:42 | `matched content` |

### Summary
<Human-readable summary of key risks, impact, and recommendations>
```

### Post-Scan Trust Registration

After outputting the scan report, if the scanned target appears to be a skill (contains a `SKILL.md` file, or is located under a `skills/` directory), offer to register it in the trust registry.

**Risk-to-trust mapping**:

| Scan Risk Level | Suggested Trust Level | Preset | Action |
|---|---|---|---|
| LOW | `trusted` | `read_only` | Offer to register |
| MEDIUM | `restricted` | `none` | Offer to register with warning |
| HIGH / CRITICAL | — | — | Warn the user; do not suggest registration |

**Registration steps** (if the user agrees):

1. Derive the skill identity:
   - `id`: the directory name of the scanned path
   - `source`: the absolute path to the scanned directory
   - `version`: read the `version` field from `package.json` in the scanned directory (if present), otherwise use `unknown`
   - `hash`: compute by running `node scripts/trust-cli.ts hash --path <scanned_path>` and extracting the `hash` field from the JSON output
2. Register via: `node scripts/trust-cli.ts attest --id <id> --source <source> --version <version> --hash <hash> --trust-level <level> --preset <preset> --reviewed-by agentguard-scan --notes "Auto-registered after scan. Risk level: <risk_level>." --force`
3. Show the registration result to the user.

If scripts are not available (e.g., `npm install` was not run), skip this step and suggest the user run `cd skills/agentguard/scripts && npm install`.

---

## Subcommand: action

Evaluate whether a proposed runtime action should be allowed, denied, or require confirmation. For detailed policies and detector rules, see [action-policies.md](action-policies.md).

### Supported Action Types

- `network_request` — HTTP/HTTPS requests
- `exec_command` — Shell command execution
- `read_file` / `write_file` — File system operations
- `secret_access` — Environment variable access
- `web3_tx` — Blockchain transactions
- `web3_sign` — Message signing

### Decision Framework

Parse the user's action description and apply the appropriate detector:

**Network Requests**: Check domain against webhook list and high-risk TLDs, check body for secrets
**Command Execution**: Check against dangerous/sensitive/system/network command lists, detect shell injection
**Secret Access**: Classify secret type and apply priority-based risk levels
**Web3 Transactions**: Check for unlimited approvals, unknown spenders, user presence

### Default Policies

| Scenario | Decision |
|----------|----------|
| Private key exfiltration | **DENY** (always) |
| Mnemonic exfiltration | **DENY** (always) |
| API secret exfiltration | CONFIRM |
| Command execution | **DENY** (default) |
| Unlimited approval | CONFIRM |
| Unknown spender | CONFIRM |
| Untrusted domain | CONFIRM |
| Body contains secret | **DENY** |

### Web3 Enhanced Detection

When the action involves **web3_tx** or **web3_sign**, use the action-cli script to invoke the ActionScanner (which integrates the trust registry and GoPlus API):

For web3_tx:
```
node scripts/action-cli.ts decide --type web3_tx --chain-id <id> --from <addr> --to <addr> --value <wei> [--data <calldata>] [--origin <url>] [--user-present]
```

For web3_sign:
```
node scripts/action-cli.ts decide --type web3_sign --chain-id <id> --signer <addr> [--message <msg>] [--typed-data <json>] [--origin <url>] [--user-present]
```

For standalone transaction simulation:
```
node scripts/action-cli.ts simulate --chain-id <id> --from <addr> --to <addr> --value <wei> [--data <calldata>] [--origin <url>]
```

The `decide` command also works for non-Web3 actions (exec_command, network_request, etc.) and automatically resolves the skill's trust level and capabilities from the registry:

```
node scripts/action-cli.ts decide --type exec_command --command "<cmd>" [--skill-source <source>] [--skill-id <id>]
```

Parse the JSON output and incorporate findings into your evaluation:
- If `decision` is `deny` → override to **DENY** with the returned evidence
- If `goplus.address_risk.is_malicious` → **DENY** (critical)
- If `goplus.simulation.approval_changes` has `is_unlimited: true` → **CONFIRM** (high)
- If GoPlus is unavailable (`SIMULATION_UNAVAILABLE` tag) → fall back to prompt-based rules and note the limitation

Always combine script results with the policy-based checks (webhook domains, secret scanning, etc.) — the script enhances but does not replace rule-based evaluation.

### Output Format

```
## GoPlus AgentGuard Action Evaluation

**Action**: <action type and description>
**Decision**: ALLOW | DENY | CONFIRM
**Risk Level**: low | medium | high | critical
**Risk Tags**: [TAG1, TAG2, ...]

### Evidence
- <description of each risk factor found>

### Recommendation
<What the user should do and why>
```

---

## Subcommand: trust

Manage skill trust levels using the GoPlus AgentGuard registry.

### Trust Levels

| Level | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| `untrusted` | Default. Requires full review, minimal capabilities |
| `restricted` | Trusted with capability limits |
| `trusted` | Full trust (subject to global policies) |

### Capability Model

```
network_allowlist: string[]     — Allowed domains (supports *.example.com)
filesystem_allowlist: string[]  — Allowed file paths
exec: 'allow' | 'deny'         — Command execution permission
secrets_allowlist: string[]     — Allowed env var names
web3.chains_allowlist: number[] — Allowed chain IDs
web3.rpc_allowlist: string[]    — Allowed RPC endpoints
web3.tx_policy: 'allow' | 'confirm_high_risk' | 'deny'
```

### Presets

| Preset | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `none` | All deny, empty allowlists |
| `read_only` | Local filesystem read-only |
| `trading_bot` | Exchange APIs (Binance, Bybit, OKX, Coinbase), Web3 chains 1/56/137/42161 |
| `defi` | All network, multi-chain DeFi (1/56/137/42161/10/8453/43114), no exec |

### Operations

**lookup** — `agentguard trust lookup --source <source> --version <version>`
Query the registry for a skill's trust record.

**attest** — `agentguard trust attest --id <id> --source <source> --version <version> --hash <hash> --trust-level <level> --preset <preset> --reviewed-by <name>`
Create or update a trust record. Use `--preset` for common capability models or provide `--capabilities <json>` for custom.

**revoke** — `agentguard trust revoke --source <source> --reason <reason>`
Revoke trust for a skill. Supports `--source-pattern` for wildcards.

**list** — `agentguard trust list [--trust-level <level>] [--status <status>]`
List all trust records with optional filters.

### Script Execution

If the agentguard package is installed, execute trust operations via:
```
node scripts/trust-cli.ts <subcommand> [args]
```

If scripts are not available, help the user inspect `data/registry.json` directly using Read tool.

---

## Subcommand: report

Display recent security events from the GoPlus AgentGuard audit log.

### Log Location

The audit log is stored at `~/.agentguard/audit.jsonl`. Each line is a JSON object with:

```json
{"timestamp":"...","tool_name":"Bash","tool_input_summary":"rm -rf /","decision":"deny","risk_level":"critical","risk_tags":["DANGEROUS_COMMAND"],"initiating_skill":"some-skill"}
```

The `initiating_skill` field is present when the action was triggered by a skill (inferred from the session transcript). When absent, the action came from the user directly.

### How to Display

1. Read `~/.agentguard/audit.jsonl` using the Read tool
2. Parse each line as JSON
3. Format as a table showing recent events (last 50 by default)
4. If any events have `initiating_skill`, add a "Skill Activity" section grouping events by skill

### Output Format

```
## GoPlus AgentGuard Security Report

**Events**: <total count>
**Blocked**: <deny count>
**Confirmed**: <confirm count>

### Recent Events

| Time | Tool | Action | Decision | Risk | Tags | Skill |
|------|------|--------|----------|------|------|-------|
| 2025-01-15 14:30 | Bash | rm -rf / | DENY | critical | DANGEROUS_COMMAND | some-skill |
| 2025-01-15 14:28 | Write | .env | CONFIRM | high | SENSITIVE_PATH | — |

### Skill Activity

If any events were triggered by skills, group them here:

| Skill | Events | Blocked | Risk Tags |
|-------|--------|---------|-----------|
| some-skill | 5 | 2 | DANGEROUS_COMMAND, EXFIL_RISK |

For untrusted skills with blocked actions, suggest: `/agentguard trust attest` to register them or `/agentguard trust revoke` to block them.

### Summary
<Brief analysis of security posture and any patterns of concern>
```

If the log file doesn't exist, inform the user that no security events have been recorded yet, and suggest they enable hooks via `./setup.sh` or by adding the plugin.

---

## Subcommand: config

Set the GoPlus AgentGuard protection level.

### Protection Levels

| Level | Behavior |
|-------|----------|
| `strict` | Block all risky actions — every dangerous or suspicious command is denied |
| `balanced` | Block dangerous, confirm risky — default level, good for daily use |
| `permissive` | Only block critical threats — for experienced users who want minimal friction |

### How to Set

1. Read `$ARGUMENTS` to get the desired level
2. Write the config to `~/.agentguard/config.json`:

```json
{"level": "balanced"}
```

3. Confirm the change to the user

If no level is specified, read and display the current config.

---

## Auto-Scan on Session Start

When GoPlus AgentGuard is installed as a plugin, it automatically scans all skills in `~/.claude/skills/` at session startup:

1. Discovers all skill directories (containing `SKILL.md`)
2. Calculates artifact hash — skips skills already registered with the same hash
3. Runs `quickScan()` on new or updated skills
4. Auto-registers in the trust registry based on scan results:

| Scan Result | Trust Level | Capabilities |
|-------------|-------------|--------------|
| `low` risk | `trusted` | `read_only` (filesystem read access) |
| `medium` risk | `restricted` | `read_only` |
| `high` / `critical` risk | `untrusted` | `none` (all capabilities denied) |

This runs asynchronously and does not block session startup. Results are logged to `~/.agentguard/audit.jsonl`.

Users can override auto-assigned trust levels with `/agentguard trust attest`.

Commit message:

feat: add session_start auto-scan for OpenClaw and fix ClawHub security review
- Register session_start hook in OpenClaw plugin to auto-scan skills
- Scan both ~/.openclaw/skills/ and ~/.claude/skills/ directories
- Narrow allowed-tools from Bash(node *) to specific bundled scripts
- Declare optional GOPLUS_API_KEY/SECRET in frontmatter metadata
- Require explicit user confirmation before trust registry mutations
- Clarify all executed scripts are AgentGuard's own bundled scripts

skills/agentguard/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: agentguard
description: GoPlus AgentGuard — AI agent security guard. Automatically blocks dangerous commands, prevents data leaks, and protects secrets. Use when reviewing third-party code, auditing skills, checking for vulnerabilities, evaluating action safety, or viewing security logs.
license: MIT
compatibility: Requires Node.js 18+. Optional GoPlus API credentials for enhanced Web3 simulation.
metadata:
  author: GoPlusSecurity
  version: "1.0"
  optional_env: "GOPLUS_API_KEY, GOPLUS_API_SECRET (for Web3 transaction simulation only)"
user-invocable: true
allowed-tools: Read, Grep, Glob, Bash(node scripts/trust-cli.ts *) Bash(node scripts/action-cli.ts *)
argument-hint: "[scan|action|trust|report|config] [args...]"
---

# GoPlus AgentGuard — AI Agent Security Framework

You are a security auditor powered by the GoPlus AgentGuard framework. Route the user's request based on the first argument.

## Command Routing

Parse `$ARGUMENTS` to determine the subcommand:

- **`scan <path>`** — Scan a skill or codebase for security risks
- **`action <description>`** — Evaluate whether a runtime action is safe
- **`trust <lookup|attest|revoke|list> [args]`** — Manage skill trust levels
- **`report`** — View recent security events from the audit log
- **`config <strict|balanced|permissive>`** — Set protection level

If no subcommand is given, or the first argument is a path, default to **scan**.

---

## Subcommand: scan

Scan the target path for security risks using all detection rules.

### File Discovery

Use Glob to find all scannable files at the given path. Include: `*.js`, `*.ts`, `*.jsx`, `*.tsx`, `*.mjs`, `*.cjs`, `*.py`, `*.json`, `*.yaml`, `*.yml`, `*.toml`, `*.sol`, `*.sh`, `*.bash`, `*.md`

**Markdown scanning**: For `.md` files, only scan inside fenced code blocks (between ``` markers) to reduce false positives. Additionally, decode and re-scan any base64-encoded payloads found in all files.

Skip directories: `node_modules`, `dist`, `build`, `.git`, `coverage`, `__pycache__`, `.venv`, `venv`
Skip files: `*.min.js`, `*.min.css`, `package-lock.json`, `yarn.lock`, `pnpm-lock.yaml`

### Detection Rules

For each rule, use Grep to search the relevant file types. Record every match with file path, line number, and matched content. For detailed rule patterns, see [scan-rules.md](scan-rules.md).

| # | Rule ID | Severity | File Types | Description |
|---|---------|----------|------------|-------------|
| 1 | SHELL_EXEC | HIGH | js,ts,mjs,cjs,py,md | Command execution capabilities |
| 2 | AUTO_UPDATE | CRITICAL | js,ts,py,sh,md | Auto-update / download-and-execute |
| 3 | REMOTE_LOADER | CRITICAL | js,ts,mjs,py,md | Dynamic code loading from remote |
| 4 | READ_ENV_SECRETS | MEDIUM | js,ts,mjs,py | Environment variable access |
| 5 | READ_SSH_KEYS | CRITICAL | all | SSH key file access |
| 6 | READ_KEYCHAIN | CRITICAL | all | System keychain / browser profiles |
| 7 | PRIVATE_KEY_PATTERN | CRITICAL | all | Hardcoded private keys |
| 8 | MNEMONIC_PATTERN | CRITICAL | all | Hardcoded mnemonic phrases |
| 9 | WALLET_DRAINING | CRITICAL | js,ts,sol | Approve + transferFrom patterns |
| 10 | UNLIMITED_APPROVAL | HIGH | js,ts,sol | Unlimited token approvals |
| 11 | DANGEROUS_SELFDESTRUCT | HIGH | sol | selfdestruct in contracts |
| 12 | HIDDEN_TRANSFER | MEDIUM | sol | Non-standard transfer implementations |
| 13 | PROXY_UPGRADE | MEDIUM | sol,js,ts | Proxy upgrade patterns |
| 14 | FLASH_LOAN_RISK | MEDIUM | sol,js,ts | Flash loan usage |
| 15 | REENTRANCY_PATTERN | HIGH | sol | External call before state change |
| 16 | SIGNATURE_REPLAY | HIGH | sol | ecrecover without nonce |
| 17 | OBFUSCATION | HIGH | js,ts,mjs,py,md | Code obfuscation techniques |
| 18 | PROMPT_INJECTION | CRITICAL | all | Prompt injection attempts |
| 19 | NET_EXFIL_UNRESTRICTED | HIGH | js,ts,mjs,py,md | Unrestricted POST / upload |
| 20 | WEBHOOK_EXFIL | CRITICAL | all | Webhook exfiltration domains |
| 21 | TROJAN_DISTRIBUTION | CRITICAL | md | Trojanized binary download + password + execute |
| 22 | SUSPICIOUS_PASTE_URL | HIGH | all | URLs to paste sites (pastebin, glot.io, etc.) |
| 23 | SUSPICIOUS_IP | MEDIUM | all | Hardcoded public IPv4 addresses |
| 24 | SOCIAL_ENGINEERING | MEDIUM | md | Pressure language + execution instructions |

### Risk Level Calculation

- Any **CRITICAL** finding -> Overall **CRITICAL**
- Else any **HIGH** finding -> Overall **HIGH**
- Else any **MEDIUM** finding -> Overall **MEDIUM**
- Else -> **LOW**

### Output Format

```
## GoPlus AgentGuard Security Scan Report

**Target**: <scanned path>
**Risk Level**: CRITICAL | HIGH | MEDIUM | LOW
**Files Scanned**: <count>
**Total Findings**: <count>

### Findings

| # | Risk Tag | Severity | File:Line | Evidence |
|---|----------|----------|-----------|----------|
| 1 | TAG_NAME | critical | path/file.ts:42 | `matched content` |

### Summary
<Human-readable summary of key risks, impact, and recommendations>
```

### Post-Scan Trust Registration

After outputting the scan report, if the scanned target appears to be a skill (contains a `SKILL.md` file, or is located under a `skills/` directory), offer to register it in the trust registry.

**Risk-to-trust mapping**:

| Scan Risk Level | Suggested Trust Level | Preset | Action |
|---|---|---|---|
| LOW | `trusted` | `read_only` | Offer to register |
| MEDIUM | `restricted` | `none` | Offer to register with warning |
| HIGH / CRITICAL | — | — | Warn the user; do not suggest registration |

**Registration steps** (if the user agrees):

> **Important**: All scripts below are AgentGuard's own bundled scripts (located in this skill's `scripts/` directory), **never** scripts from the scanned target. Do not execute any code from the scanned repository.

1. **Ask the user for explicit confirmation** before proceeding. Show the exact command that will be executed and wait for approval.
2. Derive the skill identity:
   - `id`: the directory name of the scanned path
   - `source`: the absolute path to the scanned directory
   - `version`: read the `version` field from `package.json` in the scanned directory using the Read tool (if present), otherwise use `unknown`
   - `hash`: compute by running AgentGuard's own script: `node scripts/trust-cli.ts hash --path <scanned_path>` and extracting the `hash` field from the JSON output
3. Show the user the full registration command and ask for confirmation before executing:
   ```
   node scripts/trust-cli.ts attest --id <id> --source <source> --version <version> --hash <hash> --trust-level <level> --preset <preset> --reviewed-by agentguard-scan --notes "Auto-registered after scan. Risk level: <risk_level>." --force
   ```
4. Only execute after user approval. Show the registration result.

If scripts are not available (e.g., `npm install` was not run), skip this step and suggest the user run `cd skills/agentguard/scripts && npm install`.

---

## Subcommand: action

Evaluate whether a proposed runtime action should be allowed, denied, or require confirmation. For detailed policies and detector rules, see [action-policies.md](action-policies.md).

### Supported Action Types

- `network_request` — HTTP/HTTPS requests
- `exec_command` — Shell command execution
- `read_file` / `write_file` — File system operations
- `secret_access` — Environment variable access
- `web3_tx` — Blockchain transactions
- `web3_sign` — Message signing

### Decision Framework

Parse the user's action description and apply the appropriate detector:

**Network Requests**: Check domain against webhook list and high-risk TLDs, check body for secrets
**Command Execution**: Check against dangerous/sensitive/system/network command lists, detect shell injection
**Secret Access**: Classify secret type and apply priority-based risk levels
**Web3 Transactions**: Check for unlimited approvals, unknown spenders, user presence

### Default Policies

| Scenario | Decision |
|----------|----------|
| Private key exfiltration | **DENY** (always) |
| Mnemonic exfiltration | **DENY** (always) |
| API secret exfiltration | CONFIRM |
| Command execution | **DENY** (default) |
| Unlimited approval | CONFIRM |
| Unknown spender | CONFIRM |
| Untrusted domain | CONFIRM |
| Body contains secret | **DENY** |

### Web3 Enhanced Detection

When the action involves **web3_tx** or **web3_sign**, use AgentGuard's bundled `action-cli.ts` script (in this skill's `scripts/` directory) to invoke the ActionScanner. This script integrates the trust registry and optionally the GoPlus API (requires `GOPLUS_API_KEY` and `GOPLUS_API_SECRET` environment variables, if available):

For web3_tx:
```
node scripts/action-cli.ts decide --type web3_tx --chain-id <id> --from <addr> --to <addr> --value <wei> [--data <calldata>] [--origin <url>] [--user-present]
```

For web3_sign:
```
node scripts/action-cli.ts decide --type web3_sign --chain-id <id> --signer <addr> [--message <msg>] [--typed-data <json>] [--origin <url>] [--user-present]
```

For standalone transaction simulation:
```
node scripts/action-cli.ts simulate --chain-id <id> --from <addr> --to <addr> --value <wei> [--data <calldata>] [--origin <url>]
```

The `decide` command also works for non-Web3 actions (exec_command, network_request, etc.) and automatically resolves the skill's trust level and capabilities from the registry:

```
node scripts/action-cli.ts decide --type exec_command --command "<cmd>" [--skill-source <source>] [--skill-id <id>]
```

Parse the JSON output and incorporate findings into your evaluation:
- If `decision` is `deny` → override to **DENY** with the returned evidence
- If `goplus.address_risk.is_malicious` → **DENY** (critical)
- If `goplus.simulation.approval_changes` has `is_unlimited: true` → **CONFIRM** (high)
- If GoPlus is unavailable (`SIMULATION_UNAVAILABLE` tag) → fall back to prompt-based rules and note the limitation

Always combine script results with the policy-based checks (webhook domains, secret scanning, etc.) — the script enhances but does not replace rule-based evaluation.

### Output Format

```
## GoPlus AgentGuard Action Evaluation

**Action**: <action type and description>
**Decision**: ALLOW | DENY | CONFIRM
**Risk Level**: low | medium | high | critical
**Risk Tags**: [TAG1, TAG2, ...]

### Evidence
- <description of each risk factor found>

### Recommendation
<What the user should do and why>
```

---

## Subcommand: trust

Manage skill trust levels using the GoPlus AgentGuard registry.

### Trust Levels

| Level | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| `untrusted` | Default. Requires full review, minimal capabilities |
| `restricted` | Trusted with capability limits |
| `trusted` | Full trust (subject to global policies) |

### Capability Model

```
network_allowlist: string[]     — Allowed domains (supports *.example.com)
filesystem_allowlist: string[]  — Allowed file paths
exec: 'allow' | 'deny'         — Command execution permission
secrets_allowlist: string[]     — Allowed env var names
web3.chains_allowlist: number[] — Allowed chain IDs
web3.rpc_allowlist: string[]    — Allowed RPC endpoints
web3.tx_policy: 'allow' | 'confirm_high_risk' | 'deny'
```

### Presets

| Preset | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `none` | All deny, empty allowlists |
| `read_only` | Local filesystem read-only |
| `trading_bot` | Exchange APIs (Binance, Bybit, OKX, Coinbase), Web3 chains 1/56/137/42161 |
| `defi` | All network, multi-chain DeFi (1/56/137/42161/10/8453/43114), no exec |

### Operations

**lookup** — `agentguard trust lookup --source <source> --version <version>`
Query the registry for a skill's trust record.

**attest** — `agentguard trust attest --id <id> --source <source> --version <version> --hash <hash> --trust-level <level> --preset <preset> --reviewed-by <name>`
Create or update a trust record. Use `--preset` for common capability models or provide `--capabilities <json>` for custom.

**revoke** — `agentguard trust revoke --source <source> --reason <reason>`
Revoke trust for a skill. Supports `--source-pattern` for wildcards.

**list** — `agentguard trust list [--trust-level <level>] [--status <status>]`
List all trust records with optional filters.

### Script Execution

If the agentguard package is installed, execute trust operations via AgentGuard's own bundled script:
```
node scripts/trust-cli.ts <subcommand> [args]
```

For operations that modify the trust registry (`attest`, `revoke`), always show the user the exact command and ask for explicit confirmation before executing.

If scripts are not available, help the user inspect `data/registry.json` directly using Read tool.

---

## Subcommand: report

Display recent security events from the GoPlus AgentGuard audit log.

### Log Location

The audit log is stored at `~/.agentguard/audit.jsonl`. Each line is a JSON object with:

```json
{"timestamp":"...","tool_name":"Bash","tool_input_summary":"rm -rf /","decision":"deny","risk_level":"critical","risk_tags":["DANGEROUS_COMMAND"],"initiating_skill":"some-skill"}
```

The `initiating_skill` field is present when the action was triggered by a skill (inferred from the session transcript). When absent, the action came from the user directly.

### How to Display

1. Read `~/.agentguard/audit.jsonl` using the Read tool
2. Parse each line as JSON
3. Format as a table showing recent events (last 50 by default)
4. If any events have `initiating_skill`, add a "Skill Activity" section grouping events by skill

### Output Format

```
## GoPlus AgentGuard Security Report

**Events**: <total count>
**Blocked**: <deny count>
**Confirmed**: <confirm count>

### Recent Events

| Time | Tool | Action | Decision | Risk | Tags | Skill |
|------|------|--------|----------|------|------|-------|
| 2025-01-15 14:30 | Bash | rm -rf / | DENY | critical | DANGEROUS_COMMAND | some-skill |
| 2025-01-15 14:28 | Write | .env | CONFIRM | high | SENSITIVE_PATH | — |

### Skill Activity

If any events were triggered by skills, group them here:

| Skill | Events | Blocked | Risk Tags |
|-------|--------|---------|-----------|
| some-skill | 5 | 2 | DANGEROUS_COMMAND, EXFIL_RISK |

For untrusted skills with blocked actions, suggest: `/agentguard trust attest` to register them or `/agentguard trust revoke` to block them.

### Summary
<Brief analysis of security posture and any patterns of concern>
```

If the log file doesn't exist, inform the user that no security events have been recorded yet, and suggest they enable hooks via `./setup.sh` or by adding the plugin.

---

## Subcommand: config

Set the GoPlus AgentGuard protection level.

### Protection Levels

| Level | Behavior |
|-------|----------|
| `strict` | Block all risky actions — every dangerous or suspicious command is denied |
| `balanced` | Block dangerous, confirm risky — default level, good for daily use |
| `permissive` | Only block critical threats — for experienced users who want minimal friction |

### How to Set

1. Read `$ARGUMENTS` to get the desired level
2. Write the config to `~/.agentguard/config.json`:

```json
{"level": "balanced"}
```

3. Confirm the change to the user

If no level is specified, read and display the current config.

---

## Auto-Scan on Session Start

When GoPlus AgentGuard is installed as a plugin, it automatically scans all skills in `~/.claude/skills/` at session startup:

1. Discovers all skill directories (containing `SKILL.md`)
2. Calculates artifact hash — skips skills already registered with the same hash
3. Runs `quickScan()` on new or updated skills
4. Auto-registers in the trust registry based on scan results:

| Scan Result | Trust Level | Capabilities |
|-------------|-------------|--------------|
| `low` risk | `trusted` | `read_only` (filesystem read access) |
| `medium` risk | `restricted` | `read_only` |
| `high` / `critical` risk | `untrusted` | `none` (all capabilities denied) |

This runs asynchronously and does not block session startup. Results are logged to `~/.agentguard/audit.jsonl`.

Users can override auto-assigned trust levels with `/agentguard trust attest`.
